VXD Architecture

Summary
VXD is a development environment that allows the creation of programs using a
drag and drop gui. The gui allows the user to drag icons to the canvas, connect
them with different kinds of lines, and place icons inside of other icons.
Icons and lines also have properties that can be edited. VXD is configured by
a few XML documents and DTDs.  The first configuration document, the language 
elements document, gives the GUI the icon images and line types to be used. When
the diagram is being drawn, an XML document is generated that represents the picture.
The second configuration document, the language structure document, gives the 
legal structure of the elements and essentially defines a language.  Everytime a 
new icon or line is added to the program, the validity of the diagram is checked 
using the language structure document and doesn't allow diagrams that aren't structured
as defined.  The third configuration document is an XSL document that converts the
XML document generated from the diagram into the deployment language.  Finally,
the generated program must be deployed and configured to be tested. Heres the
flow of the code generation and deployment process.


                  5.Program in Target Language

                            /\
                            ||
                            ||

                  4.XSL Document Providing
             the Translation to the target language

                            /\
                            ||
                            ||

                  3.Structured XML Document
                    representing the diagram

                            /\
                            ||
                            ||
1.LANGUAGE               Visual XML                   2.LANGUAGE
  ELEMENTS -------->      Designer        <----------   STRUCTURE
  DOCUMENT           Graphical Interface                DOCUMENT
(XML Document)         (Java Program)         (XML Document Type Definition)

The icon pictures     The user drags and      This defines the structure of which
and line connectors    drops icons and         icons can be connected and arranged
                     connects the pictures


This architecture provides the flexibility of adding new language features by
simply adding the icon to the the two documents.  Alternatively you can define
your own language from scratch.  The goal is to create a highly productive
language with which you can code using only the mouse by intuitively connecting
the concepts. Also the Designer will not allow illegal code because the structure
is checked every time a new element is added to the diagram.

As the picture is drawn, an XML document is generated (3).  In essence, this
generated document (3) is a program written in the language defined by (2) using
the commands in (1).

Once you have an XML visual program you can use XSL(4) to convert that language to 
another(5).  This is powerful because you can generate the program for different
platforms. Also realize that the Target Language is not only the code, but
can also be the configuration for the deployment platform. Another step may
be necessary to place the generated result into the final server environment.

